Movies with actual audio

This disaster led to the first 24-hour radio coverage of a situation.

Invented in U of T, 1921 by Banting & Best

Invented the radio in 1929

Radio, Insulin Pablum (baby food), Popsicles

Chinese Immigration Act (1885) forced Chinese immigrants to pay $50 per person

Benito Mussolini (Italy), Emperor Hirohito, Tojo Hideki (Japan), Francisco Franco (Spain), Josef Stalin (Russia, USSR), Adolf Hitler (Germany)

Either extremist fascism or communism; dictatorship often formed to solve economic issues.

Liberal & conservative are all relatively neutral

50k Canadians killed 1918-1920

Bars where alcohol was sold illegally during the prohibition

Famous 5, led by Emily Murphy protested that women were not considered "persons" under the BNA act of 1864. After review by privy council (higher than supreme court), the law was appealed.

First women to vote in a federal election in 1917 under the Wartime Elections act.

Women who wore flapper dresses, danced the charleston, partied & drank during the depression.

Canada's primary exports

A dance popularized by jazz, performed by flappers

Primary exports of Canada; wheat, pulp & paper, fish

Exclusively transient men during the depression being payed $0.20 an hour for back-breaking labour. Created in 1932.

William Lyon Mackenie King, the liberal leader for Canada from

3 Rs: Relief for poor & unemployed, reform of economy to prevent repeat depression, recovery of economy back to normal levels (as well as social reform)

Organized near Guelph, Ontario in 1921. Led by Tim Buck & organized the On-to-Ottawa trek

One of the first popular coloured movie released in 1939.

Led the fascist party; 1938 National Unity Party of Canada.

Were unhappy with English speaking minority causing economic unrest in Quebec, led the Union Nationale.

James Frank Willis covered the 1936 Nova Scotian Moose River disaster, when a gold mine caved and 3 men inside.

First time Canadians formed a union and large-scale strike. Soldiers found teamwork was useful coming back from war. Ended June 29th, lasted for 1 & a half months.

"Canadian version" of Al Capone, responsible for 17 murders.

Women's Christian Temperance Organization, pushed for prohibition. "Lips that touch liquor shall not touch ours"

Women pre-1921 who fought to extend the right to vote for women. E.g. nellie mclung; first "travelling part-time comedian".

Led the Alberta 5 in the Person's case.

Taxes imposed by a country for imported goods and services from another country

City in Louisiana where Jazz originated.

Big black cloud that turned the prairies of Canada into a desert. 

Rebelling against relief camps, organized by communist party started in B.C. Only for transient men.

5-cent piece speech. (people did not agree with laissez-faire politics)

New deal (conservative), PFRA (Liberal) 

Led by Bible Thumping William Aberhart. Won 90% of Alberta in 1935, led from 1934-1972, wanted to give out social credits ($25 per person per month) to stimulate the economy.

Car that was pulled by a horse as there was no money for fuel.

Famous Canadian silent film actor.

Leader of CCF; believed in abolishing capitalism. Believed farmers were doing all the work but capitalists were making all the money.

Popular hockey commentator & previous hockey player.

Imperial conference held in London 1926, resulted in Balfour Report. Report made law in 1931, adapting the statute of Wesminister: Britain could not longer make laws for colonies. AKA "Canada's declaration of independence".

Banning of the production, importing, and transportation of alcohol/liquor from 1918-1920. Eventually, the feds decided they would rather tax illegal things than spend money combatting it. Due to prohibition, crime rates dropped, industrial efficiency was improved, there was less public drunkenness, and the LCBO was formed.

American bootlegger, essentially created modern mob/gangs.

America's sweetheart (Canadian)

:(

First female senator.

Many minorities were assimilated in the interwar years.

Overproduction of products to match demand which created backlog when the depression hit.

Non-married man or women (no bitches)

Protest against relief camps.

Leadership style with minimal government interference, "invisible hand of capitalism

Regina Manifesto, believed "farmers do everything, capitalists make all the money", led by JS Woodworth, labour groups/protection for union workers. Became the NDP in 1960.

Artist who was inspired by indigenous people.

Established residential schools in 1876. Got rid of the proclamation line.

Bible William Thumping Aberhart; leader of the 1934-1972

1932 popular song characterizing desire for relief in the depression.

Turkey was invading Greece, Britain was aiding and needed backup troops and Canada refused. Important to 

Emilie Murphy (leader), lead & organized the persons case

Jazz musician who started at the age of 17

Invented insulin at U of T in 1921

Illegal sale & fabrication of alcoholic beverages.

Since the Indian act, indigenous children age 7-15 had to go to residential schools to be indoctrinated. Last school closed in 1996.

October 29 1929; massive overnight crash of the 

Term for relief (had to prove you were poor to get it)

Led from 1930-1935, wanted to give out welfare (dole/pogey) to financially challenged people. Created relief camps, which provided relief in other forms like boots, food, coal & shelter.

Prairies Farming Rehabilitation Administration relocated farmers to seed vacant lands 

Were unhappy with english speaking minority causing economic unrest in Quebec

Board game created at the time; appeal was to "pretend to prosper"/be rich

Invented by Guillamo Marconi, was an effective mode of communication & news.

Leader of the Canadian Communist party

Developed in New Orleans, created the Charleston, broke down race barriers

Access to stock market, tariffs, overreliance on staple products, Credit, dependence on the USA, overproduction (surplus) [OCADOT] [CATDOO]
